Another property that is very important when it
comes to CSS grid is 'justify-items' and justify
items and the default is right now.
Stretch.
So that if I refresh this nothing's going to change
but if I do start and refresh it aligns the contents
in a grid item along what
we call the row axes.
So the row axes is each row if I do end and I
refresh we see that there now towards the end.
But a better way to visualize this is
to actually use our developer tools.
So if I go to view>developer>developer tools and we
select our grid you see that by clicking on this
pointing icon and hovering over it in Google
Chrome we actually see our grid system.
And if I scroll you see that
it actually stays in place.
But you see that we now have our
items at the end of our grid system.
Our last item which is '2fr' right
over here is justified to the end.
Our second column is justified to the end and we see
a bit of a gap here and that is because remember
we have '1fr' and then the first item because it's
auto and the size is according to its content doesn't
really move whether we have end or start here it's
already within the maxed space of the grid system.
And just like we have
the axes around the row.
If I change this to 'align-items' and I save and
refresh this is hard to see so let's just do five or
300px and refresh here.
We see that align-items is the exact opposite where
it's around a column axes and we can use start.
end here to move those grid boxes around but most
of the time we want this field and we don't want to
move items around so I don't really
like using those two properties.
So let's fix that to
'1fr' if I refresh.
All right we have things back to normal.
We're going to close this.
Now the last thing I want to show you inside of this
container is my preferred method of actually creating
a grid layout in any website that I built.
And what I usually like to do is something new that
we haven't seen before I usually do repeat and define
here how many rows I want.
Let's say I want '3, 1fr'.
So I want everything to have the same size.
But there's a problem here right.
Because right now this is stretching.
But as soon as we make it too small or too big it's
just it's not extremely responsive or it's not 100
percent responsive.
So instead I like using 'auto-fill'. And
auto-fill, just to show you what it does.
If I do something like 300px and I refresh
and now I change the sizing you'll see that our
grid system or the column system adjusts auto fills
according to the size of our
viewport which is really really nice.
But right now I just said 300px.
So again it's not super super responsive.
So instead we can use something
else called the 'minmax()'.
And I know this can look confusing.
But if you remember this pattern this is the most
common pattern I would say to use when it comes to
CSS grid.
So once you get used to this you can just
copy and paste it and use it everywhere.
And here we want to do is say well the minimum that
we want the size of our columns to be let's say
I want the minimum to be 200px.
So that's the smallest it's
going to get the max though.
How big do we want these to get.
And this is a common thing.
What do we want as the biggest.
Well just '1fr'. Because as we'll see by doing
this they'll will automatically adjust to the
size of the viewport.
Let me just save and show you what I mean.
If I refresh here.
I see I have three here.
It auto adjusts auto adjusts based on our size but you
also see that the container itself is also adjusting
in size so that if I go
smaller and smaller and smaller
as soon as we hit the to
200px minimum it adjusts.
And because we said '1fr' is the max as soon as the
viewport is really very small and goes below 200px
it's going to just take up one fraction and
in our case it will be the entire screen.
So using this syntax of 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax())'
giving it a minimum we're able to make this completely
responsive.
And as you can see here
it's pretty powerful right.
In just a few lines of code we've made this
grid system that is completely responsive.
All right up to this point we've just focused on
the container but what about the individual items.
What if we want something that's maybe bigger than the
other item and we don't want them all symmetrical
like this.
What will we do?
Let's find out in the next video.